This is a version of the gnome module shipped with R up to versions
2.0.x.  It is now a separate front end: how to use it is described in
the R-admin manual in R 2.1.0 to 2.3.1.  For later versions of R the
information is reproduced here.  

This interface is experimental and incomplete.  The console offers a
basic command line editing and history mechanism, along with tool and
button bars that give a point-and-click console to some R commands.
Many of the features of the console are currently stubs, and the
console is no longer under development: it has been kept available as
an example of adding a front-end to R.

A gtk() graphics device (a port of the x11() device to GDK (the GIMP
Drawing Kit)) is available from CRAN as package gtkDevice: this
cooperates rather better with the console than the x11() device.


Installing gnomeGUI
===================

The package can be installed like any other, e.g.

	R CMD INSTALL gnomeGUI_2.x.y.tar.gz

It is necessary to have compiled R as a shared library (via
--enable-R-shlib) or (from R 2.7.0) as a static library (via
--enable-R-static-lib).

You will need at least the following packages installed:

audiofile-0.2.1
esound-0.2.23
glib-1.2.10
gtk+-1.2.10
imlib-1.9.10
ORBit-0.5.12
gnome-libs-1.4.1.2
libxml-1.8.16
libglade-0.17

Later versions are acceptable, but not e.g. gnome2 or libglade2.

Remember that some package management systems (such as RPM and deb)
make a distinction between the user version of a package and the
developer version.  The latter usually has the same name but with the
extension -devel or -dev.  If you use a pre-packaged version of GNOME
then you must have the developer versions of the above packages in
order to compile the gnomeGUI package.


For greater control, gnomeGUI can be configured and built
independently of R.  Create a build directory, and from there run

/path/to/gnomeGUI/configure R_HOME=/path/to/R/installation
make
make install

This installs the two files bin/exec/Rgnome and
share/glade/gnome-interface.glade in under R_HOME.

The full list of options to this configure is

R_HOME
the directory (containing file bin/R ) of the R installation

--with-gnome
specify the prefix for the GNOME dirs

--with-gnome-includes=DIR
specify location of GNOME headers

--with-gnome-libs=DIR
specify location of GNOME libs

--with-libglade-config=LIBGLADE_CONFIG
specify location of libglade-config


Using gnomeGUI
==============

One the package is installed, invoke R by one of

	R -g gnome
	R --gui=gnome


The R core team
